Update USACO_FAQs.mdx (#4490)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/1_General/USACO_FAQs.mdx

You can also ask a question by submitting the "Contact Us" form on the
bottom-left of this page, or on the [USACO Forum](https://forum.usaco.guide/).

> ## Q: How can I register or create an account?

Author: Done.

## Q: How do I initiate or begin a contest?

Once you've registered and logged into your USACO account, check the website during contest weekends for instructions on starting the contest. Usually, there will be a button or link on the homepage indicating the start of the contest. Click on it to initiate your personal contest timer and access the contest problems.

## Q: Is collaborative work allowed?

Collaborating with others during the contest is strictly prohibited to maintain fairness and integrity. USACO contests are designed to assess individual problem-solving skills, and allowing collaboration could provide an unfair advantage. However, outside of the contest environment, students are encouraged to study and prepare together, sharing knowledge and techniques to improve their skills collectively.

## Q: Is participation on a school team mandatory?

No, participating on a school team is not mandatory for USACO contests. Competitors can participate as individuals, and teamwork during the contest itself is not allowed.

## Q: Are there any awards or recognitions for participation?

> While USACO does not offer physical prizes, advancing through the difficult divisions and achieving high scores is an accomplishment worth noting. Recognition is given by listing the names of advancing participants in the contest results, which can be a notable achievement to include on college applications and resumes. Additionally, the skills and knowledge gained through participation can be valuable assets in academic and professional pursuits.

Author: Done. I removed it

> ## Q: What is the scoring system for contests?

Reviewer: Redundant, mentioned earlier.

Author: Done.

USACO contests are scored out of 1000 points, with each problem weighted equally. Solutions are evaluated against a set of test cases, and points are awarded based on the number of correct test cases passed.

> ## Q: Are there any penalties for performing poorly?

Reviewer: well, you could get discouraged and stop participating in contests ...

(I don't think this answer is useful, remove?)

No, there are no penalties for performing poorly in USACO contests. Participating in the contest provides valuable learning experiences regardless of your performance.

> ## Q: Is there a possibility of being moved down a division?

Reviewer: This could be answered a lot more concisely. For example, move this question under " How do promotions work?" and have the answer just be "No."

Author: I added it to "How do promotions work" in like the last line, wrote a sentence instead of just saying no.

USACO follows a promotion-based system, where participants advance to higher divisions based on their performance in contests. Once promoted to a higher division, participants remain in that division unless they advance further. There is no demotion from a division once achieved, providing a sense of progression and achievement for participants.

> ## Q: Can I participate in multiple divisions concurrently?

Reviewer: already answered in "Q: How do promotions work?"

Author: Done. I removed it

Yes, with a perfect score in your current division, you can be immediately promoted to the next division and participate in its contest during the same weekend.

> ## Q: What types of problems can I expect in USACO?

Reviewer: I don't think this section is useful, remove. Just check past problems.

Author: Done.

USACO problems cover a wide range of algorithmic challenges, requiring participants to demonstrate problem-solving skills and algorithmic thinking. These problems often involve tasks such as data manipulation, searching, sorting, dynamic programming, graph algorithms, and geometry. Participants are expected to devise efficient algorithms and implement solutions in their chosen programming language.

> ## Q: What are the constraints on memory and time for C++, Python, and Java programs?

Reviewer: Some of the time and memory limits in this section are wrong. Please refer to https://usaco.org/index.php?page=instructions

Author: Done, I changed the I fixed the time constraints, 2sec for cpp and then 256 gb approximately for all languages. Will add more infromation on the technical constraints later, but updated version should be good for now.

- Memory Constraints: Programs are allocated a certain amount of memory for their execution. The allocated memory varies depending on the programming language and the contest specifications. For example, Java programs are typically allocated around 256 MB of memory, while other languages may have different memory allocations. The allocated memory is used to store variables, data structures, and other program-related information during execution. It's essential for participants to manage memory efficiently to avoid exceeding the allocated memory limit, which can lead to runtime errors or program termination.

Here's a table summarizing the constraints for different programming languages in USACO contests:
| Programming Language | Time Limit   | Memory Allocation |
|----------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Java                 | Around 4 sec | Around 256 MB    |
| C++                  | Around 4 sec | Around 256 MB    |
| Python               | Around 8 sec | Around 512 MB    |
| Other Accepted Languages | Varies    | Varies           |

> ## Q: How can I reach out to USACO administrators or support?

Reviewer: Just link the email of the USACO contest director ([Brian Dean](mailto:bcdean@clemson.edu)) here.

Author: Done, added his gmail to the question. do you know if they listed any gmails for the other staff? I would like to add them in the future just so people on the website can reach out to more than one person if they have a question.

Reviewer: email, not gmail. his is the only official one

Author: sorry, i meant email

Contact information for USACO organizers can usually be found on their website. Look for instructions on how to contact contest organizers or support staff for assistance with any issues or inquiries.

> ## Q: Who is responsible for organizing and overseeing the competition?

Reviewer: seems pretty much the same as KTBYTE question and answer. And I don't think this is useful to include. Remove.

Author: True, I removed it

You can also ask a question by submitting the "Contact Us" form on the
bottom-left of this page, or on the [USACO Forum](https://forum.usaco.guide/).

## Q: Is collaborative work allowed?

Collaborating with others during the contest is strictly prohibited to maintain fairness and integrity. USACO contests are designed to assess individual problem-solving skills, and collaboration provides an unfair advantage. However, outside of the contest environment, students are encouraged to study and prepare together, sharing knowledge and techniques to improve their skills collectively.

## Q: What are the constraints on memory and time for C++, Python, and Java programs?
In USACO contests, programs written in various programming languages are subject to specific constraints to ensure fair and efficient competition. These constraints include both time limits and memory allocations, which vary slightly depending on the language used.

> Time Constraints: Each input test case is allotted a specific time limit for program execution. This time limit is typically 2 or 4 seconds, depending on programming language. Within this time frame, the program must complete its execution and produce the correct output. Exceeding the time limit results in the program being terminated, potentially leading to a partial or failed evaluation of the solution.

Reviewer: > potentially leading to a partial or failed evaluation of the solution.

this should just say - leading to a verdict of "Time Limit Exceeded."

> Time Constraints: Each input test case is allotted a specific time limit for program execution. This time limit typically ranges around 4 seconds, although it can vary depending on the complexity of the problem and the specific contest. Within this time frame, the program must complete its execution and produce the correct output. Exceeding the time limit results in the program being terminated, potentially leading to a partial or failed evaluation of the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time Constraints: Each input test case is allotted a specific time limit for program execution. This time limit is typically 2 or 4 seconds, depending on programming language. Within this time frame, the program must complete its execution and produce the correct output. Exceeding the time limit results in the program being terminated, potentially leading to a partial or failed evaluation of the solution.
```

> - Memory Constraints: Programs are allocated a certain amount of memory for their execution. The allocated memory varies depending on the programming language and the contest specifications. For example, Java programs are typically allocated around 256 MB of memory, while other languages may have different memory allocations. The allocated memory is used to store variables, data structures, and other program-related information during execution. It's essential for participants to manage memory efficiently to avoid exceeding the allocated memory limit, which can lead to runtime errors or program termination.

Reviewer: > while other languages may have different memory allocations.

it's not different

Reviewer: > which can lead to runtime errors or program termination.

it would be a "Memory Limit Exceeded" verdict

Here's a table summarizing the constraints for different programming languages in USACO contests:
| Programming Language | Time Limit   | Memory Allocation |
|----------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Java                 | Around 4 sec | Around 256 MB    |
| C++                  | Around 2 sec | Around 256 MB    |
| Python               | Around 4 sec | Around 256 MB    |

## Q: How can I reach out to USACO administrators or support?

Contact USACO contest director [Brian Dean](mailto:bcdean@clemson.edu) for any questions.

> ## Closing Thoughts

Reviewer: > Q: Where can I find the answer to a question that isn't answered here?

Can you move this question to just above "Closing Thoughts"?

- Memory Constraints: Programs are allocated a certain amount of memory for their execution. The allocated memory is used to store variables, data structures, and other program-related information during execution. It's essential for participants to manage memory efficiently to avoid exceeding the allocated memory limit, which would lead to a "Memory Limit Exceeded" verdict.
Here's a table summarizing the constraints for different programming languages in USACO contests:
| Programming Language | Time Limit   | Memory Allocation |
|----------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Java                 | Around 4 sec | Around 256 MB    |
| C++                  | Around 2 sec | Around 256 MB    |
| Python               | Around 4 sec | Around 256 MB    |

## Closing Thoughts

> If you have any questions please contact the USACO contest director [Brian Dean](mailto:bcdean@clemson.edu).

Reviewer: Please make it clear that you should email the USACO contest directory only if you are experiencing issues with the USACO website (usaco.org), NOT usaco.guide. Open the contact form for an example
